Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to explain a Mexican horror
film called The Day of The Lord.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care Menendez is a retired
priest.
After performing an exorcism on a boy who
died in his hands, he was imprisoned.
Upon his release, numerous security measures
are observed.
He is in a police vehicle shackled in chains
and handcuffs.
Additionally, two officers also guard him.
They are on the way to his new home.
He dreams of Marisa, the mother of the boy
who died.
In his dream, Marisa is on top of him and
gently gives him a kiss.
She gets up and asks Menendez to bless her
with a child.
The speech sounds like seduction at first,
but Marisa’s tone changes.
She adds that he caused her son’s death
and that he brought her little boy to hell.
Menendez sees the lifeless body of the boy,
all bloody and beaten.
He wakes up while breathing shakily after
the terrible dream.
He gets up and immediately drinks a bottle
of whiskey by his bedside table.
Menendez now lives in a tumbledown house in
seclusion.
He struggles daily to hold on to the last
remnants of his faith.
He receives a call on his telephone from a
mysterious caller.
But he has a conversation as if they know
each other well.
He tells the caller that he is fine and starting
a new life.
All of a sudden, Menendez gets angry about
something, but promises the caller that he
will hear from him again.
He enters a room and opens a box of old newspapers.
He sees an article about him being found guilty
of killing the boy.
It upsets him very much so he closes the box.
Before putting the phone down, Menendez promises
the caller that he gave up drinking.
He enters the kitchen to pour the bottle of
liquor into the sink.
However, after doing so, he regrets his decision
and starts scouring the kitchen for a filled
bottle.
He finally finds one in a lower compartment.
After finding it, he embraces the bottle in
happiness and relief.
Recently, he relies his sanity solely on liquor.
That same day, he hears a heavy knock from
his front door.
A man outside commands him to open the door.
Menendez thinks it through as he is not ready
to be in contact with anyone just yet.
After some convincing, he finally opens the
door for his friend, Sebas, whom he met in
prison.
They hug each other after not being able to
see one another for a significant amount of
time.
Sebas checks out the new place, and says that
he likes it because it is spacious.
He shows Menendez a bottle of liquor that
he plans on sharing with him to celebrate
their reunion.
On the table, Menendez refuses to have any,
because he abstains from alcohol in order
to fix his crippling mental state.
Sebas persuades him to have a shot, and even
call him “Father”.
Menendez tells him that he should not refer
to him with that name, because he has left
the clergy after the tragic exorcism.
Sebas used to be an addict, but Menendez helped
him back then to get his life back on track.
He breaks down in front of him, so Menendez
asks him what is wrong.
His manner changes completely.
Sebas desperately begs for the former priest’s
help after revealing that his daughter, Raquel,
is possessed by a demon.
Menendez is taken aback because the topic
triggers him very much.
Sebas claims that he has gone to everyone
else,
from physicians to therapists, but no one
has been able to help his daughter.
Menendez reminds Sebas that his methods are
very particular and might harm his daughter.
Knowing that the process could get violent,
he asks Sebas if he is truly willing to go
through it.
He responds by saying that he would rather
see Raquel die and go to heaven with the Lord
than for her to be alive with the demon.
According to Menendez, Raquel may be going
through a bad phase, or have bad influences
in her life, causing her to act strangely.
But Sebas is convinced that she is possessed.
One reason is because a cat that was once
inseparable with Raquel disappeared one day.
He found it buried headless in their garden.
A few days after that, he found the cat’s
head under Raquel’s bed, in a shoe box.
He has no doubts that his daughter did it.
He describes seeing sinister- looking eyes
in her daughter.
Menendez takes the shot of alcohol and agrees
to exorcise Raquel.
Menendez opens his laptop to search for graphic
content on the internet.
He contemplates on this, and decides to avoid
temptation.
Moments later, his doorbell rings; Marisa
visits him on a regular basis to check up
on him and the place.
She offers to clean and do chores for him
free of charge.
Menendez says that it is unnecessary for her
to keep coming and help with daily tasks.
Marisa tells him that it pains her to see
the former priest lock himself in the house
and have lesser will to live as days go by.
The more they talk, the more they get intimate
with each other.
Marisa realizes that what they are doing is
wrong, so she walks away to leave.
Before she exits, she tells him to move to
the guest house so he can have clean clothes
and warm food.
Left alone, Menendez takes a deep breath as
the telephone rings again.
He admits to the caller that he has not given
up alcohol and that he lied when he said he
did.
Menendez tells the caller that he knows it
is him that sends Marisa to the house every
week.
Also, he apologizes to the caller for not
inviting him to the house.
The identity of the caller is unclear, but
it seems that he knows a lot about the former
priest.
Menendez’s bedroom is filled with crosses.
He is still plagued by nightmares about the
incident.
He dreams of Marisa entering his room.
She is holding scissors and looks like she
is planning to do something brutal.
She climbs to the bed to cut off his private
parts.
As he screams in pain, the figurines disfigure
and scream as well.
Menendez wakes up with a frightened and disturbed
mood.
He goes to the bathroom to fix his appearance.
A sense of urgency to change makes him get
up to clean the entire place.
He also prepares the house for Raquel’s
visit.
Despite the time of not being an active servant
of the charge, he still remembers the preparation
for routines and rituals.
He sprinkles holy water around the house,
and prays the rosary in his makeshift chapel.
For the first time since his release, he gets
out of the house to throw the trash.
He hurriedly runs back inside before anyone
could see him.
After grabbing the bottle of whiskey for him
to throw away, he notices another newspaper
with him as the headline.
It makes him recall memories of seeing Marisa’s
son.
From that time, his faith was
shaken and gradually lost.
Menendez is hopeful that saving Raquel will
bring him redemption for his failure with
Marisa’s son.
A couple of minutes later, someone knocks
on his door.
Sebas arrives with his daughter who he claims
to be possessed.
Raquel immediately gives Menendez a very menacing
look while she listens to heavy metal on her
headphones.
Sebas introduces them to each other awkwardly.
Raquel enters the house and observes the place.
She does not seem to have any emotions or
reaction toward staying there for days.
While she walks around, Menendez apologizes
to Sebas for making them come all the way
there and wasting their time.
Apparently, he is not ready to perform an
exorcism just yet.
This annoys Sebas because he thought that
they already had a concise agreement.
They get into an argument, and Menendez claims
that he only agreed yesterday because he was
drunk.
Sebas takes out a knife and points it to his
neck.
He tells the former priest that he will end
his life on the spot if he does not help him
cure his daughter.
Menendez stops him and says that the things
he will have to do to free Raquel will destroy
him forever, just as what happened to Marisa’s
son.
Raquel stares at them blankly, so they both
get up and arrive on the decision to forego
the exorcism.
Sebas tries to embrace Raquel before leaving,
but she refuses to be touched.
After he leaves, Menendez tries to talk to
Raquel about how her father loves her very
much.
She replies that her father is completely
out of his mind.
Menendez gives Raquel a quick tour of the
house, and shows her the room she will be
staying at.
He leaves her alone, but before that, he sees
Raquel looking at the crucifix.
She puts her belongings down to sit by the
bed, and finds a bible inside the drawer.
She calls one of her friends to plot her escape
from the house; a sound from the closet catches
her attention so she opens it.
She finds someone watching her from a tiny
hole, so she screams.
Menendez comes to her room to comfort her,
but she storms out.
He notices that the crucifix has been inverted.
She finds that this is the perfect time for
her to flee, but the door is locked.
She commands Menendez to unlock the door right
away, but just shows her the keys tied to
his neck.
She frantically tells him that if he doesn’t
hand her over the keys, she will shout that
he is harassing her.
Menendez calmly says that it is no use to
do that because he does not have neighbors.
Out of frustration, Raquel brings out her
taser, but she is holding it backwards, causing
her to receive the shock.
She falls unconscious, so Menendez drags her
all the way to the couch.
As he lays her down, he removes her jacket
and her top.
In a very disturbing manner, Menendez sniffs
it while she is asleep.
Eventually, Raquel wakes up and notices that
she isn’t wearing her jacket anymore and
that her top slightly shows part of her shoulder.
She adjusts her clothing just as Menendez
hands her a cup of tea.
Now that she is calm and relaxed, Menendez
explains to her that the exorcism is for her
own good.
Sebas loves her very much, that is why he
is leaving her in his care.
The priest lights up incense in one corner
of the room
as part of the process.
All of a sudden, Menendez strangles her mercilessly
while saying that he won’t stop until he
takes the devil out of her.
She wakes up and realizes that it is just
a dream.
At this point, she is now ready to have a
proper conversation with him.
Menendez admits to spying on her from the
closet because he overheard her plan to sneak
out with her friends.
Raquel tries to persuade him that her father
is the crazy one.
According to her, she goes out a lot and acts
weird simply because she is a teenager.
While explaining this, she gets more agitated
and says obscure words out loud.
Menendez kneels in front of her to go into
a praying position.
The act confuses and silences Raquel, and
she starts to calm down.
They continue the consultation; Raquel shares
that she has a dancing group with her friends
and they have hopes of being in a talent show
on TV.
She gets excited once she starts talking about
her passion in dancing, and even offers to
dance for Menendez.
However, her mood suddenly changes and she
calls him a dirty old man when he seems to
like the idea.
She confronts the priest about her being undressed
by him; his eyes widen, and she just laughs
at him for seeming guilty.
Raquel gets up and goes to the bathroom to
smoke.
She sees the toilet paper covered in text,
but uses it anyway.
She pees while smoking, then all of a sudden,
the door knob moves uncontrollably.
She thinks that it is Menendez, so she shouts
at him.
Menendez answers from a distance saying that
it was not him.
Raquel talks to herself and admits that her
father may be right about her being crazy.
She tries to flush the toilet, but it is stuck.
She goes out to look for Menendez.
He frightens her as he is standing right by
her side.
He explains that one of the beams is loose,
and he will fix it right away.
Menendez acts very weird, given that Raquel
is a young woman.
That night, Menendez cooks meat and vegetables
for Raquel.
He initiates a conversation about the cat
that her father saw headless.
She denies the accusation and tells him that
he should not believe her father at all times.
She firmly believes that she is not possessed.
Menendez says that he knows Raquel can feel
the entity inside her, but she is clueless
about his remarks.
She does not feel anything contrary to what
they keep telling her.
The strength and inertia to disregard everything
and question everything makes it evident.
However, Raquel tells him not to lecture her.
To lighten the mood, she asks him about his
relationships in the past.
He replies that he met a girl once and fell
in love, but their relationship was different
and abrupt.
Menendez tries to break her walls by persuading
her to open up about her past relationships
as well.
She is hesitant at first, but she eventually
tells a story about dating an older man named
Javi.
He invited her to a party, but Javi and his
friends just made fun of her.
She cries in the priest’s arms.
After crying, her mood completely changes
and she tells Menendez that she will dance
for him.
Back in the living room, Raquel lets Menendez
wear her headphones.
She moves some of the furniture so she can
move more freely.
She starts to dance to upbeat music.
The face of Menendez is both puzzled and amazed.
As her movements become more extreme, he walks
out after saying that it is time for bed.
Raquel is now in her room preparing to go
to sleep.
Suddenly, she hears a knock from Menendez.
Raquel tries seduction to see if Menendez
is true to his faith.
It ends when Menendez knocks her out, takes
her to the basement and ties her up.
Raquel gains consciousness and gets a sight
of Menendez smoking.
The clock hits midnight, it is now Sunday—
the day of the Lord which means that he will
start the exorcism in a few moments.
Raquel is hysterical while trying to persuade
Menendez to let her go.
She assures him that she won’t say a thing
to anyone.
He gives no attention to her pleas and sits
in front of her instead.
He brings out a long electric stick to taunt
the demon, but it is unsure if a demon is
even there in the first place.
He tells her that his working methods are
very rough.
At this point, Raquel becomes more panic-stricken
because she has no idea how to make him believe
that she is not possessed.
She begs him to let her go, but Menendez is
focused on talking to the demon whom he believes
is there, but just unresponsive.
Because of fear, Raquel pees herself on the
chair.
Menendez points the electric stick on the
wet surface, which electrocutes Raquel.
She twitches excessively as she is in great
pain.
When he begins torturing her to purge her
soul of the quiet demonic influence, Raquel
shrieks in great pain that her voice even
changes.
Now, she is a victim of terrible abuse.
It leaves a deep impact on Menendez as well,
as he fears that this attempt might also result
in the death of the person he is trying to
save.
He goes upstairs to contact Sebas using Raquel’s
phone, asking if he could help him with the
process.
He also uses the telephone to talk to the
mysterious caller, who seems to be a divine
being.
He tells the caller that although the possession
is a strong one, Sebas can handle the sight
of his daughter being tortured.
He also thanks the mysterious caller for listening
and giving him words of encouragement.
As he prays and prepares himself for the exorcism,
Sebas arrives.
He seems very nervous about how the outcome
will be.
Menendez reveals to him that he secretly conducted
experiments on her to see if she is possessed
by a demon and discovered that a malevolent
being is certainly using her as a host.
He used a special incense that stinks; Raquel
does not notice the smell, which is the first
symptom.
He also gave her rotten meat, and she ate
it without a problem, which is the second
symptom.
During her naps, she spoke in a strange language
and he saw that her body has marks with specific
patterns.
According to him, he has seen it with his
past subjects.
Menendez shows pictures of Raquel’s body
with demonic marks to her father.
Sebas questions him why he took pictures of
his daughter’s body without clothes, but
he brushes away the topic by saying that they
have to check on her.
Menendez seems to be the abuser at this point,
and conceals it with believing that a demon
is taking over Raquel.
Both of them prepare to go down the basement.
Menendez gives reminders to Sebas about the
things that he should and shouldn’t do.
He highlights parts of the Bible that Sebas
should read during the process.
According to him, reading it will drive the
demon crazy.
He also asked Sebas to bring a mask to cover
his identity while they perform the exorcism.
They make their way to the basement.
Sebas is concealed with a funny-looking mask,
so Raquel won’t recognize him.
While reading, he also changes his accent
so she won’t know it’s him.
He reads the passages out loud while Raquel
worries about the pain that she will surely
undergo.
Menendez lays the equipment he will use on
a corner.
He wears a knuckle ring and approaches Raquel.
She commands the demon to leave her body,
then punches her the first time.
He punches her another time, and wounds start
to cover her face.
He continues to torture her, but Sebas stops
reading.
She does not seem possessed.
Menendez asks him to continue because if he
doesn’t, the demon will take full possession
of his daughter.
He even slaps him so he could focus and not
give in to her pleas.
Raquel recognizes her father and calls for
him.
Sebas continues to read as Menendez removes
one of Raquel’s nails.
She shrieks in pain while he does the same
with the rest of her nails.
Raquel’s father is now convinced to release
her.
He could not stand the sight of her being
hurt any longer.
Sebas knocks Menendez to the ground and apologizes
to his daughter for the pain she has been
through.
After embracing and letting her go, Raquel’s
eyes change to a different color.
At this moment, he knew he made a terrible
mistake.
The demon has played the victim perfectly.
She moves in a monstrous manner, and pushes
Sebas across the room.
Raquel’s possessed body is able to drag
the body of the priest across the floor without
touching him.
She also makes him levitate.
On his drop, he passes out.
Menendez has a vision of himself, dressed
up in clerical attire, and wearing the mask
of a plague doctor.
His teeth are pulled out one by one, later
formed as a rosary.
He sees his animated self directly in front
of him, so he shouts in complete terror.
He wakes up to a crying Raquel on the phone
with the police.
She reports that she is being tortured and
forced to do things against her will.
She notices that Menendez is awake, so she
approaches him.
She touches the priest inappropriately, but
he commands her to stop it in the name of
the Lord.
Raquel continues to tease him, while her voice
changes in different tones.
Menendez realizes it is also the same demon
he dealt with several years ago.
The demon that now inhabits Raquel’s body
once plagued Marisa and her son.
The demon taunts the priest by saying that
he failed to save the boy’s soul, and he
has ended up in hell with them.
Sebas wakes up to find his possessed daughter
sitting on his friend’s lap.
She puts on a demonic laugh as she approaches
her father.
She performs a sensual act on him, which disgusts
him.
Menendez tells him to be strong, but Raquel
continues on doing the deed.
She gets on top of him and does the deed against
his will.
Sebas is distraught by this because Raquel
is his daughter and the act is highly inappropriate.
Menendez is able to untie himself from the
chair.
He knocks Raquel on the floor while commanding
the demon to leave her body.
Raquel gets on top of him and breaks his fingers
one by one.
Seeing what Menendez considers the biggest
failure of his life, the demon tortures its
old enemy, aware that the former priest hasn’t
forgiven himself for it.
Sebas manages to knock Raquel out with a fire
extinguisher, but Menendez stops him from
killing her.
They bind her with the chains from the time
of the Inquisition.
As Menendez explains, the chains contain the
suffering of all the possessed souls, which
will torment the demon.
He starts to set up a flickering light which
will keep the demon in place when it leaves
the body.
Sebas continues to read the holy passages
while Menendez punches her tirelessly.
After numerous hits, Menendez gets tired but
continues to do so.
It still pains Sebas to see his daughter that
way, but he has no choice.
They say the final lines of the passage together
and wait for the result.
They then complete the exorcism, forcing it
to take a physical form for the first time,
appearing as Menendez.
The demon congratulates him, and he uses a
makeshift cross to condemn it.
He hallucinates and sees Marisa and Sebas
reminding him of his sins.
The demon then takes its true form; a big
and ugly creature.
With the cross, he manages to defeat it.
He comes upstairs to reunite with Sebas and
Raquel who is now free from the demonic influence.
He urges sebas to go as quickly as he can
because the cops are about to arrive any minute.
He stays behind, all bloody and exhausted.
Raquel takes a look at him one last time to
express her gratitude for saving her soul.
The telephone rings once again; Menendez says
that “it’s done” and he is now at peace.
However, the phone’s cable is severed, meaning
that the call might just be in his imagination.
Moments after, an entity, which looks like
a nun levitates and approaches Menendez in
a demonic manner.